README.md, before:

Install R via Interactive Bash Script
=====================================
Ryan Price

This repository provides a bash script, `install_R.bash`, that installs the R
software on various popular GNU/Linux distributions:

- Debian
- Ubuntu
- Fedora
- RHEL
- CentOS
- Amazon Linux
- Arch Linux (once you're up & running)
- Manjaro
- Raspbian.

Once run, the script becomes interactive, prompting the user for input on how
they would like their installation configured. This program is designed to make
the fresh R configuration of a new system or virtual machine as painless as
possible. To that end, simply following the prompts should be all a user has to
do to get up and running with R with a few keystrokes.

Currently, the script leads the user through the following main prompts:

1. Installation of the base R software (which will also install development
tools for R)

1. Installation of the [tidyverse](tidyverse.org) of R packages. The tidyverse
is a collection of R packages designed for consistency in data analysis code.
Approving this install will also install the `data.table` package, a lightweight
package for very fast data analysis & transformation that has zero non-core-R
dependencies.

1. Installation of the [RStudio desktop IDE](rstudio.com). Even if you don't
care for the tidyverse, which is developed by the people at RStudio, this IDE is
very high-quality, and supports syntax highlighting and shell execution of other
software, as well. Highly recommended.

<br>

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

The easiest way to get the installation running is to run the following in your
terminal:

```
# Requires root privileges, obviously
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ryapric/install_R/master/install_R.bash" | bash
```

Please note that piping to bash _**can be very dangerous**_, and you should only do so
if you have full inspected the source code that you will be running. If you are
uncomfortable piping directly to bash, then you can `curl` the script (or clone
the whole repository) locally, inspect the `install_R.bash` script, then run the
script manually. Either approach will have the same results.

<br>

Things to Note
--------------

- There are various GNU/Linux utilities that R, the tidyverse, and RStudio
depend on to function properly (`libxml`, `libssl`, PostgreSQL backend, etc.).
Those utilities will only be installed if the relevant selection is approved
when running this script.

- As this is a *bash* script, you will need the bash shell to execute it. I have
tried to keep as many "bashisms" out of it as possible, but some were
unavoidable for more concise code.

- Some machines, like `micro`-size Amazon AWS EC2 and Google Cloud instances
(and Raspberry Pis) do not have enough RAM to compile the `tidyverse` source
code successfully. Therefore, if you try and install the package suite, and your
system memory is determined to be too low, you will be prompted to allocate
space for a temporary swapfile so that compilation can succeed. The swapfile is
"swapped off" after a successful install, but please note that whatever swap
settings you may have had before *will not be restored*.
    - If installation fails or is interrupted, the swapfile may not be removed.
    You can check and remove it yourself by inspecting the `/mnt` folder for a
    `*.swap` file (where `*` is the size you gave the swapfile, in GB). Then you
    can turn off & remove it by running the following:
    ```
    swapoff /mnt/*.swap
    rm /mnt/*.swap
    ```

- If you chose to make a swapfile, please note that for systems like the
Raspberry Pi, which use SD cards as storage, this is not a great idea. SD cards
have shorter life spans than magnetic persistent storage, and I do not know how
thrashed they may be by so much C++ compilation at once. Proceed with caution
when agreeing to that prompt on such a system.

Please feel free to file bug reports, or reach out with any questions or
suggestions.

<br>

#### License
GPL-3

Commit message:

Add `--no-confirm` option to pass.

README.md, after:

Install R via Interactive Bash Script
=====================================
Ryan Price

This repository provides a bash script, `install_R.bash`, that installs the R
software on various popular GNU/Linux distributions:

- Debian
- Ubuntu
- Fedora
- RHEL
- CentOS
- Amazon Linux
- Arch Linux (once you're up & running)
- Manjaro
- Raspbian.

Once run, the script becomes interactive, prompting the user for input on how
they would like their installation configured. This program is designed to make
the fresh R configuration of a new system or virtual machine as painless as
possible. To that end, simply following the prompts should be all a user has to
do to get up and running with R with a few keystrokes.

Currently, the script leads the user through the following main prompts:

1. Installation of the base R software (which will also install development
tools for R)

1. Installation of the [tidyverse](tidyverse.org) of R packages. The tidyverse
is a collection of R packages designed for consistency in data analysis code.
Approving this install will also install the `data.table` package, a lightweight
package for very fast data analysis & transformation that has zero non-core-R
dependencies.

1. Installation of the [RStudio desktop IDE](rstudio.com). Even if you don't
care for the tidyverse, which is developed by the people at RStudio, this IDE is
very high-quality, and supports syntax highlighting and shell execution of other
software, as well. Highly recommended.

<br>

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

The easiest way to get the installation running is to run the following in your
terminal:

```
# Requires root privileges, obviously
curl -sSL "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ryapric/install_R/master/install_R.bash" | bash
```

Please note that piping to bash _**can be very dangerous**_, and you should only do so
if you have full inspected the source code that you will be running. If you are
uncomfortable piping directly to bash, then you can `curl` the script (or clone
the whole repository) locally, inspect the `install_R.bash` script, then run the
script manually. Either approach will have the same results.

<br>

Things to Note
--------------

- You can give approval to all prompts (except the swap file confirmation) by
running the script and passing a single option: `--no-confirm`. This is useful
for when you want a full ecosystem installation without having to wait through
the install steps.

- There are various GNU/Linux utilities that R, the tidyverse, and RStudio
depend on to function properly (`libxml`, `libssl`, PostgreSQL backend, etc.).
Those utilities will only be installed if the relevant selection is approved
when running this script.

- As this is a *bash* script, you will need the bash shell to execute it. I have
tried to keep as many "bashisms" out of it as possible, but some were
unavoidable for more concise code.

- Some machines, like `micro`-size Amazon AWS EC2 and Google Cloud instances
(and Raspberry Pis) do not have enough RAM to compile the `tidyverse` source
code successfully. Therefore, if you try and install the package suite, and your
system memory is determined to be too low, you will be prompted to allocate
space for a temporary swapfile so that compilation can succeed. The swapfile is
"swapped off" after a successful install, but please note that whatever swap
settings you may have had before *will not be restored*.
    - If installation fails or is interrupted, the swapfile may not be removed.
    You can check and remove it yourself by inspecting the `/mnt` folder for a
    `*.swap` file (where `*` is the size you gave the swapfile, in GB). Then you
    can turn off & remove it by running the following:
    ```
    swapoff /mnt/*.swap
    rm /mnt/*.swap
    ```

- If you chose to make a swapfile, please note that for systems like the
Raspberry Pi, which use SD cards as storage, this is not a great idea. SD cards
have shorter life spans than magnetic persistent storage, and I do not know how
thrashed they may be by so much C++ compilation at once. Proceed with caution
when agreeing to that prompt on such a system.

Please feel free to file bug reports, or reach out with any questions or
suggestions.

<br>

#### License
GPL-3
